head	1.4;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.4
date	88.09.26.12.27.59;	author john;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	88.07.27.18.57.18;	author john;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	88.03.02.13.21.30;	author john;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	88.02.26.17.51.08;	author john;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@@


1.4
log
@Upgrade to Pshinx informix Tools
@
text
@'\" @@(#)$Id: isfile.3j,v 1.1 2002-06-14 05:03:46 afalout Exp $
'\" @@(#)Manual Page: General Library -- File access routines
.ds fC "Version: $Revision: 1.1 $ ($Date: 2002-06-14 05:03:46 $)
.TH ISFILE 3S "Sphinx Informix Tools"
.SH NAME
isfile \(em is name a file?
.br
isdirectory \(em is name a directory?
.br
fileextn \(em extension from file name
.SH SYNOPSIS
function \fBisfile\fP(pathname, filename, extn, sccsflag)
 define
  path char(64),
  filename char(14),
  extn char(4),
  sccsflag integer,
  retval integer
 ...
 return retval
.br
end function
.sp
function \fBisdirectory\fP(pathname)
 define
  pathname char(64),
  retval integer
 ...
 return retval
.br
end function
.sp
function \fBfileextn\fP(filename)
 define
  filename char(14),
  retval integer
 ...
 return retval
.br
end function
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBIsfile\fP is an I4GL-callable C function which tests whether
the string built up of the pathname variable followed by a slash
\&`/', the filename and extension strings is actually a file.
If it is not, but the sccsflag variable is not 0, then it will
try looking for an SCCS file of the corresponding name.
It looks first in the same directory, then in the sub-directory
SCCS, then in the sub-directory sccs for the file.
It prefixes the filename with `s.' if that is not already present.
The function returns a true/false value.
.P
\fBIsdirectory\fP is an I4GL-callable C function which tests
whether the string passed in the pathname variable is a directory
or not.
The function returns a true/false value.
.P
\fBFileextn\fP is an I4GL function which returns the extension
of the filename passed as an argument.
The extension has to be shorter than the basename;
this means that the file \fIa.out\fP does not have an extension.
.SH BUGS
Using three components in \fBisfile\fP is over the top,
but the extension can be left null without causing damage.
.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan Leffler
.br
Sphinx Ltd.
.br
26th February 1988
@


1.3
log
@Add .ds fC line
@
text
@d3 2
a4 2
.ds fC "Last changed: $Date: 2002-06-14 05:03:46 $
.TH ISFILE 3K "KPI Database Project"
d12 9
a20 1
\fBfunction isfile(pathname, filename, extn, sccsflag)\fP
d22 1
a22 5
define
    path char(64),
    filename char(14),
    extn char(4),
    sccsfile integer
d24 6
a29 1
\fBfunction isdirectory(pathname)\fP
d31 1
a31 2
define
    pathname char(64)
d33 6
a38 1
\fBfunction fileextn(filename)
d40 1
a40 2
define
    filename char(14)
d61 3
@


1.2
log
@If applicable, tabs removed
@
text
@d3 1
@


1.1
log
@Initial revision
@
text
@d5 1
a5 1
isfile	\(em is name a file?
d7 1
a7 1
isdirectory	\(em is name a directory?
d9 1
a9 1
fileextn	\(em extension from file name
d27 1
a27 1
	filename char(14)
@
