head	1.4;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.4
date	92.07.24.10.42.22;	author johnl;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	89.08.02.15.49.09;	author john;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	88.07.27.18.57.25;	author john;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	88.04.21.15.28.45;	author john;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@@


1.4
log
@Document set_rmargin.  Document get_xxxxxx.
Add compilation section.  Add notes about extra versions.
Add notes that RDS is supported!!!!
@
text
@'\" @@(#)$Id: report.3j,v 1.1 2002-06-14 05:03:46 afalout Exp $
'\" @@(#)Manual page: General Library -- Report Configuration
.ds fC "@@(#)$Id: report.3j,v 1.1 2002-06-14 05:03:46 afalout Exp $
.TH REPORT 3S "JLSS Informix Tools"
.SH NAME
set_output \(em Dynamically reconfigure dimensions of I4GL report
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
function set_plength(i)
.br
define i integer
.sp
function set_tmargin(i)
.br
define i integer
.sp
function set_bmargin(i)
.br
define i integer
.sp
function set_lmargin(i)
.br
define i integer
.sp
function set_rmargin(i)
.br
define i integer
.sp
function set_output()
.ft R
.ft B
function get_plength()
.sp
function get_tmargin()
.sp
function get_bmargin()
.sp
function get_lmargin()
.sp
function get_rmargin()
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions can be used to dynamically reconfigure the layout
of the page of an Informix 4GL report.
The example program shown below illustrates how they should be used.
.br
.ft CW
.ps 10
.vs 12
.nf
.so rejig.4gl
.br
.fi
.ft
.ps
.vs
The functions \fIset_plength\fP, \fIset_tmargin\fP,
\fIset_bmargin\fP, \fIset_lmargin\fP and \fIset_rmargin\fP may be called
anywhere inside an I4GL program.
The function \fIset_output\fP will have no effect except within a report.
It is recommended that \fIset_output\fP be used in the \s-2FIRST
PAGE HEADER\s0 control block, but it may be used in any control block.
.P
After the function \fIset_output\fP is called, it invalidates all the settings;
to change the settings in a second report, you must call the
set-routines again.
There is no requirement that all the routines are called (or even any of them).
.P
The functions \fIget_plength\fP, \fIget_tmargin\fP,
\fIget_bmargin\fP, \fIget_lmargin\fP and \fIget_rmargin\fP may be called
anywhere inside an I4GL program.
If page dimensions have been set using the set-routines, then the corresponding
value is returned; otherwise, the corresponding default value is returned.
After \fIset_output\fP has been called, the values returned will be
the default values again; if your report needs to know what its dimensions will
be, it should use the get-routines before calling \fIset_output\fP.
.SH COMPILATION
If compiling for use with compiled Informix-4GL, no special flags are needed.
If compiling for use with I4GL-RDS, include -DI4GL_RDS on the command line.
The details of building the functions into the \*Cfglgo\*D
and \*Cfgldb\*D are given in the corresponding Informix manuals.
The necessary definitions for \*cfgiusr.c\*d are:
.br
.ft CW
.ps 10
.vs 12
.nf
#ifdef SET_REPORT
extern  int set_output();   /* 0 */
extern  int get_rmargin();  /* 0 */
extern  int get_tmargin();  /* 0 */
extern  int get_bmargin();  /* 0 */
extern  int get_lmargin();  /* 0 */
extern  int get_plength();  /* 0 */
extern  int set_rmargin();  /* 1 */
extern  int set_tmargin();  /* 1 */
extern  int set_bmargin();  /* 1 */
extern  int set_lmargin();  /* 1 */
extern  int set_plength();  /* 1 */
#endif /* SET_REPORT */

#ifdef SET_REPORT
    { "set_output",     set_output,     0   },
    { "get_rmargin",    get_rmargin,    0   },
    { "get_tmargin",    get_tmargin,    0   },
    { "get_bmargin",    get_bmargin,    0   },
    { "get_lmargin",    get_lmargin,    0   },
    { "get_plength",    get_plength,    0   },
    { "set_rmargin",    set_rmargin,    1   },
    { "set_tmargin",    set_tmargin,    1   },
    { "set_bmargin",    set_bmargin,    1   },
    { "set_lmargin",    set_lmargin,    1   },
    { "set_plength",    set_plength,    1   },
#endif /* SET_REPORT */
.br
.fi
.ft
.ps
.vs
.SH WARNINGS
This code was designed and tested on an ATT&T 3B2/400 running 
UNIX System V Release 3.0 using Informix-4GL version 1.10.00C.
It has since been tested on a number of other environments (including Versions
1.10.03, 4.00 and 4.10) on a number of platforms, and has been found to work.
However, the code cannot be guaranteed on any platform or version of I4GL.
It is completely unsupported code.
.SH BUGS
The top margin set by \fBset_tmargin\fP does not take effect
until the second page of output.
.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan Leffler
.br
Marlin Prowell
.br
JLSS
.br
24th July 1992
@


1.3
log
@Tidy up; add warning about RDS
@
text
@d3 2
a4 2
.ds fC "Last changed: $Date: 2002-06-14 05:03:46 $
.TH REPORT 3S "Sphinx Informix Tools"
d6 1
a6 1
set_output \(em Dynamically reconfigure shape of I4GL report
d17 4
d25 1
a25 1
function set_bmargin(i)
d31 11
d49 1
a49 1
.vs 14
d57 5
a61 5
The functions \fBset_plength\fP, \fBset_tmargin\fP,
\fBset_bmargin\fP and \fBset_lmargin\fP may be called anywhere
inside an I4GL program.
The function \fBset_output\fP will have no effect except within a report.
It is recommended that \fBset_output\fP be used in the \s-2FIRST
d64 1
a64 1
After the function \fBset_output\fP is called, it invalidates all the settings;
d66 1
a66 1
other routines again.
d68 52
d122 5
a126 6
UNIX System V Release 3.0 using Informix 4GL version 1.10.00C.
It is not guaranteed to work even in this environment, though
preliminary testing indicates that it does work.
.P
There is no way of including this into
Informix-4GL Rapid Development System custom runners.
d133 1
a133 1
Software Solutions
d135 1
a135 1
Sphinx Ltd.
d137 1
a137 1
21st April 1988
@


1.2
log
@Add .ds fC line
@
text
@d4 1
a4 1
.TH REPORT 3K "KPI Database Project"
d30 1
a30 2
The example program shown below illustrates how they should be
used.
d36 1
a36 1
.so ../../src/lib/rejig.4gl
d45 1
a45 2
The function \fBset_output\fP will have no effect except within a
report.
d47 1
a47 2
PAGE HEADER\s0 control block, but it may be used in any control
block.
d49 1
a49 2
After the function \fBset_output\fP is called, it invalidates
all the settings;
d52 1
a52 2
There is no requirement that all the routines are called (or even
any of them).
d58 3
@


1.1
log
@Initial revision
@
text
@d3 1
@
