'\" @(#)$Id: repdest.man,v 1.1.1.1 2002-06-15 05:07:10 afalout Exp $
'\" @(#)Manual page: General Library -- Select Report Destination
.ds fC "Version: $Revision: 1.1.1.1 $ ($Date: 2002-06-15 05:07:10 $)
.TH REPDEST 3S "Sphinx Informix Tools"
.SH NAME
report_destination \(em select destination for report
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
function report_destination()
.br
define
    rdest    integer,
    rname    char(80)
.br
return rdest, rname
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBReport_destination\fP offers the user a standard menu for
selecting the destination for a report.
The options are ``Screen'', ``Default printer'', ``New file'',
``Append to file'', ``Pipe'' and ``Exit''.
The function returns two values, an integer indicating the
destination, and a string for the name of the file or program.
The value of the integer will be one of:
.sp
\s-2NULL\s0	Abandon report
.br
0	Send report to screen
.br
1	Send report to printer
.br
2	Send report to file
.br
3	Send report to pipe
.sp
The string defines the file or pipe to which the report should be sent.
The standard sequence for calling this function is:
.sp
.ft CW
.ps 10
.vs 14
.nf
DEFINE
    rdest    INTEGER,
    rname    CHAR(80)

CALL report_destination() returning rdest, rname
CASE rdest
WHEN 0
    START REPORT rf_report
WHEN 1
    START REPORT rf_report TO PRINTER
WHEN 2
    START REPORT rf_report TO rname
WHEN 3
    START REPORT rf_report TO PIPE rname
OTHERWISE
    RETURN    # Abandon
END CASE
.sp
.fi
.ft
.ps
.vs
The report output section should be configured for a printer
(that is, the sizes should be printer sizes; the report
destination must \fInot\fP be specified in the report).
The default specification is normally acceptable.
The report should call the function \fBset_output()\fP in the
\s-2FIRST PAGE HEADER\s0 block (or the \s-2PAGE HEADER\s0, or
some other block executed early in the report).
This will reset the output parameters correctly for the screen if
the report is sent to the screen.
The \s-2PAGE TRAILER\s0 should normally have a \s-2PAUSE\s0 in it;
this will improve the screen handling and does not affect the
report when it is sent to the printer, a file or a pipe.
.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan Leffler
.br
Sphinx Ltd.
.br
21st April 1988
